The following is the documentation for CodePeer, including all steps that are required to configure and run the application.

This application is run locally, and is NOT hosted on any web service, nor is the database hosted on any web service such as Heroku. This was chosen in consideration of the costs of doing so, given the possible short-term longevity of the project (in case I don't intend to expand its features after submission). You must run the application locally on your operating system via localhost.

This is a Node.js application with a MongoDB database for data storage. Thus, you will need to both install Node.js and MongoDB on your operating system in order to run this application. To install Node.js, you can follow the instructions at this link: https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager. If you are running OSX, I'd recommend installing Node.js through Homebrew (http://brew.sh/). Once you have successfully installed Node.js, make your way to the root directory of the project folder, CodePeer. Once in this directory, you must install all the Node modules associated with this project. To do this, simply call 'npm install' in your terminal. This should install all dependencies of the project. Once this is complete, you can test that you have successfully installed Node.js and the modules for this project by running 'node app.js'. If everything goes well, your terminal should first see the following log: 'Express server listening on port 3000 in development mode', followed by 'MongoDB Connection Error. Please make sure that MongoDB is running.' Now we must install and configure MongoDB.

To install MongoDB, follow the instructions found here: https://docs.mongodb.org/manual/installation/. If you are running OSX, I'd recommend installing it via Homebrew (https://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/). Don't forget to create the data directory, which is where MongoDB will write its data. (By default MongoDB will try to write to /data/db, and this is probably most easy to use.) Once you have followed the instructions for installing MongoDB, you can test to make sure everything is running correctly via running the service (you can do this on OSX by simply running 'mongod'). If it is, MongoDB is ready to use for CodePeer. CodePeer will write all of its date to the 'code-peer' database in your MongoDB storage file. There is no default data stored upon initial running of the application - you will have to signup all new users that you wish to play around with.

Now that configuration for the project is complete, you can run the project in its entirety via running 'node app.js' when in the root directory of the project (CodePeer). MongoDB MUST be running in the background for the application to connect to the MongoDB database. The terminal console should show that the application is running at port 3000 in development mode, and no error should appear regarding connection to the MongoDB database. You may then go to http://localhost:3000 on any browser to access the application. While the application is running, all GET and POST actions will be logged in your terminal console.

If there are any issues installing Node.js or MongoDB, your best solution is to search the particular problem you are having, as it is likely other users have had the same problem. Common issues with installing MongoDB include making sure you (the OS user), have read and write permissions for the '/data/db' file (or whatever path you choose to make your MongoDB data storage), so that MongoDB can make changes to it. I myself had to fumble with installing MongoDB for a little while. Installation of Node.js is typically pretty straightforward.